Gender and Ethnic Gap and Discrimination
The field of STEM for some time has had a disparity in number of white versus the number of nonwhite people and the number of men versus women employed, as well as a wage gap between those that do get employed that are women/nonwhite and those that are employed that are white males. The debate we’re looking at for this topic is whether or not the actions taken by employers currently is effective. 
In the article written by Julie Spitzer for beckershospitalreview.com she references data gathered by the Pew Research Center (a reputable source) on occupational disparities between white/nonwhite people and men/women in the STEM field. In this article it is quite easy to surmise that there is a disparity between genders based on the information presented. There are less women in engineering/computer science than men, and there are more white than nonwhite people with STEM jobs. It’s important to note that the research presented shows the number of jobs in the STEM fields has skyrocketed, but that the percentage of women to men in STEM has remained relatively even. This is a statistical misnomer presented from looking at the problem from too macroscopic of a view. The field in which there has been extreme job growth are the fields of computer science and engineering. The fields in which most women have STEM jobs are health care related, so even though there is a roughly 50-50 ratio in the STEM field overall, the ratio of women to men in applied mathematics fields is not the same as the ratio of men to women in STEM overall.  	The article written for NBC describes that some white males feel discriminated against by companies employing affirmative action plans. The males described feel the plans in place “overstep” the ideology of an affirmative action plan and are more along the lines of discriminating against white males for the benefit of women and/or nonwhite people as opposed to helping employ the objectively most adept person. It is of note, that the article written by MIT states that if affirmative action is understood (what it does/how it works) and the plans created are correct in ideology, then it is in fact an effective tool at reducing workplace discrimination. So now we come to an impasse; companies either aren’t properly employing affirmative action and therefore are discriminating against white males, or companies are employing affirmative action correctly and white males just don’t like being held to an equal degree as everyone else. I think it’s probably both because picking one of the two arguments implies that people who have faced discrimination have the right to fight intolerance with intolerance, or that white men are the only people that can be intolerant to begin with. Neither of which I believe to be valid or true because each are laden with the very idea we are fighting against; that aptitude shouldn’t necessarily be objective. 
Based on the three articles assigned and other information I’ve gathered on this matter, I believe we cannot say if what we are doing is enough or not because it is an inherently misplaced attempt at a solution. From a young age, we humans are constantly subjected to the bias of those around us. We need to first stop biasing children towards subjective ideals, while also educating children on what has happened in the past, and how to work towards fixing the problems of the future, objectively. In other words, the base of our society (education) is where the real solution lies, you can’t stop internal bleeding with a Band-Aid. Affirmative action plans that do fail, fail because they don’t take the ingrained biases out of the people whom they effect, they merely attempt to put a small patch on a grossly misunderstood problem as a whole. Problems are always exacerbated by fighting fire with fire; discrimination will always beget discrimination, retaliation will always beget retaliation. 
