Week 2
Eli Gitelman
1/31/2018
In 2015 President Obama changed the Internet from being under Title I to being under Title II. What this means is that the Internet became a utility, similar to electricity or gas, to the American people. Ajit Pai and the FCC recently reversed this. We are not debating whether or not this was a good idea, because it’s quite apparent it wasn’t. We are debating whether Internet should be held to its own standard (under its own title) or if it should be classified as a utility. 
	While reading Ajit Pai’s diatribe, in my opinion, there was mostly fluff except for two significant ideas. The first is that this law was reversed because ISP’s have “unnecessary and tiresome paperwork due to the Title II requirements”. No company is being run out of business due to government paperwork, especially not large ISPs and the very idea that a small ISP, someone trying to provide an alternative to the massive greed filled ISPs, would not want to do paperwork over having a free market environment is just ludicrous. Electric and gas companies around the country flourish under Title II, I’m sure it’s not THAT troublesome and tedious of paperwork. 
	The second important idea in, what I’m now calling, The Pai Manifesto is that under Title I the government will be able to force regulations onto ISPs if they want to. Well the problem here is that the government is currently run by a bunch of people who just love the large sums of money donated to them and would prefer to be rich over being incorruptible in their ideals. So to answer the debate question no I do not think a different title from Title I should be instantiated because it just leads to more opportunities for someone to make the Internet not a free market environment again. Net Neutrality is what we want. Giving an inch means giving a yard to the large ISPs, they will buy someone off again and have them change that new title into corrupted legislature. 
	I think my opinion on the matter is pretty cut and dry, the Internet should be under Title II no exception. The free market environment is the best environment for the Internet. If an ISP gets out of hand, say for the reason of monopolistic or predatory tendencies then the government can deal with that ISP. But claiming the Internet will be better for the consumer under Title I is just crazy. Look at Portugal, you have to pay for Internet access; if you want Google and email you have to pay extra, if you want Youtube and Netflix then add another fee, same goes for Facebook and Instagram. It just turns into a cyclical machine of how to get the most dollars out of the user. You cannot give these corrupted people an inch, because their entire mindset is about making money, not helping people in general or even doing what is best for the Internet/America. There is no doubt in my mind that given the opportunity large corporations will ruin the Internet. 